Another point worth mentioning here is the compression.
So, each column, if it's a text column,
or a binary column, or a blog,
or whatever you have here as in your columnar storage,
you can compress each type in a different way that is optimal for this particular column.
Redshift actually gives you control over that if you want to specify in
your schema when you create the table which type
of compression you want to use, that's fine.
However, the copy commands makes
automatic best effort compression decisions for each column,
and that's actually a very nice feature.
You can check actually later what are the changes done.
We're not going to delve into this in details a lot,
but it's just worth mentioning that actually,
the copy command is doing some work for you.
Now, we know that we can get from the S3 staging area,
but it's also possible to get from other sources.
I mean, it's also possible to ingest directly using
secure shell from EC2 machine storage.
So, you can go from Redshift,
initiate a secure shell connection to an EC2 machine,
and pull data from there.
Other than that, basically,
S3 would need to be the staging area and you would need as we said
an EC2 ETL worker to run
those ingestion jobs orchestrated by dataflow product like Airflow,
or Luigi, or NiFi, or StreamSets,
one of those tools.
Finally, you do not only want to take ETL out of Redshift.
You do not want only to get data inside Redshift.
The point of that is actually to prepare it to be presented
to business intelligence applications and decision-making, right?
So, the idea is that at one point in time,
you want to get them out.
So, there are two ways to get these out.
If a BI app would connect directly to the Redshift,
it would connect like any relational database on JDBC or ODBC source.
So, that's actually the natural way of using Redshift.
But as we said, we might sometime want to export out some aggregations
or something and the command for that is unload.
Actually, in some databases,
it's copy to, but here in Redshift,
it's unload that query for example to that bucket and path,
and we still also need credentials and in that case,
the credential is going to be write credentials not read credentials.